URL: https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro
SOURCE_GROUP: claude-platform-docs
TITLE: What is the Model Context Protocol (MCP)? - Model Context Protocol

Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at: /llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Model Context Protocol home page
Search...
⌘ K Ask Assistant
Blog
GitHub
Search...
Navigation
Get started
What is the Model Context Protocol (MCP)?
Documentation
Extensions
Specification
Registry
SEPs
Community
Get started
What is MCP?
About MCP
Architecture
Servers
Clients
Versioning
Develop with MCP
Connect to local MCP servers
Connect to remote MCP Servers
Build with Agent Skills
Build an MCP server
Clients
SDKs
Security
Developer tools
MCP Inspector
Debugging
Examples
Example Servers
On this page
What can MCP enable?
Why does MCP matter?
Broad ecosystem support
Start Building
Learn more
Get started
What is the Model Context Protocol (MCP)?
Copy page
Copy page
MCP (Model Context Protocol) is an open-source standard for connecting AI applications to external systems.
Using MCP, AI applications like Claude or ChatGPT can connect to data sources (e.g. local files, databases), tools (e.g. search engines, calculators) and workflows (e.g. specialized prompts)—enabling them to access key information and perform tasks.
Think of MCP like a USB-C port for AI applications. Just as USB-C provides a standardized way to connect electronic devices, MCP provides a standardized way to connect AI applications to external systems.
​
What can MCP enable?
Agents can access your Google Calendar and Notion, acting as a more personalized AI assistant.
Claude Code can generate an entire web app using a Figma design.
Enterprise chatbots can connect to multiple databases across an organization, empowering users to analyze data using chat.
AI models can create 3D designs on Blender and print them out using a 3D printer.
​
Why does MCP matter?
Depending on where you sit in the ecosystem, MCP can have a range of benefits.
Developers : MCP reduces development time and complexity when building, or integrating with, an AI application or agent.
AI applications or agents : MCP provides access to an ecosystem of data sources, tools and apps which will enhance capabilities and improve the end-user experience.
End-users : MCP results in more capable AI applications or agents which can access your data and take actions on your behalf when necessary.
​
Broad ecosystem support
MCP is an open protocol supported across a wide range of clients and servers. AI assistants like Claude and ChatGPT , development tools like Visual Studio Code , Cursor , MCPJam , and many others all support MCP — making it easy to build once and integrate everywhere.
​
Start Building
Build servers
Create MCP servers to expose your data and tools
Build clients
Develop applications that connect to MCP servers
Build MCP Apps
Build interactive apps that run inside AI clients
​
Learn more
Understand concepts
Learn the core concepts and architecture of MCP
Was this page helpful?
Yes No
Architecture
⌘ I
github
Assistant
Responses are generated using AI and may contain mistakes.
